Virtual thread support (#4916)
eclipse-vertx/vert.x: src/main/asciidoc/virtualthreads.adoc

== Vert.x Virtual Threads

Use virtual threads to write Vert.x code that looks like it is synchronous.

You still write the traditional Vert.x code processing events, but you have the opportunity to write synchronous code for complex  workflows and use thread locals in such workflows.

=== Introduction

> The non-blocking nature of Vert.x leads to asynchronous APIs. Asynchronous APIs can take various forms including callback style, promises or Rx-style. Vert.x uses futures in most places (although, it also supports Rx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The non-blocking nature of Vert.x leads to asynchronous APIs. 
Asynchronous APIs can take various forms including callback style, promises and reactive extensions.
```

> In some cases, programming using asynchronous APIs can be more challenging than using a direct synchronous style, in particular if you have several operations that you want to do in sequence. Also, error propagation is often more complex when using asynchronous APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, programming using asynchronous APIs can be more challenging than using a direct synchronous style, in particular if you have several operations that you want to do sequentially.
Also, error propagation is often more complex when using asynchronous APIs.
```

Virtual thread support allows you to work with asynchronous APIs, but using a direct synchronous style that you're already familiar with.

It does this by using Java 21 https://openjdk.org/jeps/444[virtual threads]. Virtual threads are very lightweight threads that do not correspond to underlying kernel threads. When they are blocked they do not block a kernel thread.

=== Using virtual threads

You can deploy virtual thread verticles.

A virtual thread verticle is capable of awaiting Vert.x futures and gets the result synchronously.

When the verticle *awaits* a result, the verticle can still process events like an event-loop verticle.

[source,java]
----
{@link examples.VirtualThreadExamples#gettingStarted}
----

> NOTE: Using virtual threads require to use Java 21 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Using virtual threads requires Java 21 or above.
```

==== Blocking within a virtual thread verticle

You can use {@link io.vertx.core.Future#await} to suspend the current virtual thread until the awaited result is available.

The virtual thread is effectively blocked, but the application can still process events.

When a virtual thread awaits for a result and the verticle needs to process a task, a new virtual thread is created to handle this task.

When the result is available, the virtual thread execution is resumed and scheduled after the current task is suspended or finished.

> IMPORTANT: Like any verticle at most one task is executed at the same time.

Reviewer 2: :100:
